# Restive Laravel Assessment

## Instruction
This project is based on latest Laravel version as of this date (v11).
https://laravel.com/docs/11.x

This project is generated by default laravel installer. 

Please fork the project to your own github repo and share to us upon completion.

This assessment will mainly assess your capability to develop with Laravel framework and either React or Vue Frontend Framework.

You may use [inertia](https://laravel.com/docs/11.x/frontend#using-vue-react) to integrate either React or Vue to Laravel or create a separated Frontend application.

This assessment also provides with docker setup using **Laravel Sail**
https://laravel.com/docs/11.x/sail

## 1. Basic Functionality
### 1.1. Product Management
- Check if physical and downloadable products can be added to the cart.
- Verify if product quantities can be updated.
- Confirm if products can be removed from the cart.
- Product must have these properties:
  - Physical Product
    - SKU
    - Name
    - Price
    - Quantity
    - Weight
  - Downloadable Product
    - SKU
    - Name
    - Price
    - Quantity
    - Size

### 1.2. Cart Management

- Verify if the cart contents can be viewed.
- Check if the total price calculation is correct.
- Ensure the shipping price is calculated correctly based on product type (physical vs. downloadable).
- Shipping price will be based on product  weight * modifier of 0.5 for simplicity.
## 2. Code Quality

### 2.1. Code Design and Structure
- Ensure proper use of MVC architecture.
- Ensure good domain design

### 2.2. Coding Standards
- Check for adherence to PSR standards and consistent naming conventions.

### 2.3. Patterns, Principles and Technic
- Bonus for implementation of various OOP principles, patterns and technique will be assessed with interest

## 3. Security
### 3.1. Data Validation and Sanitization
- Confirm proper validation of user inputs.

## 4. UI/UX
### 4.1 Frontend
- Frontend can be developed using either react or vue
### 4.2 UI/UX Design
- Ensure the interface is intuitive and user-friendly

## 5. Testing

### 5.1. Testing
- Check for the presence of unit tests for critical components.

## (Bonus) Product Types and Shipping

### Physical and Downloadable Products
- Add a physical product to the cart and verify the correct shipping price is applied.
- Add a downloadable product to the cart and ensure no shipping price is applied.
- Add both physical and downloadable products to the cart and confirm the shipping price reflects only the physical products.

### Shipping Price Calculation
- Verify the shipping price calculation changes based on the type of products in the cart.
- Ensure shipping options are correctly presented based on the physical products in the cart.

# Prerequisite
The assessment has Laravel Sail setup, to start the project, candidate will required to first install [docker](https://www.docker.com/)

## Getting things up and running

1. Run docker containers in detached mode

    `composer sail:up`

1. Run initial database migration

    `composer sail:migrate`

1. To start a bash session in the container

    `composer sail:shell`

1. As per defined in `docker-compose` you can visit the site at `localhost:8080`

# Good Luck and All the Best!
